p
so it's been good product since a few
years the industry
start to get interested
we are in the Loire valley next
angers
the mildness of its climate but also the
quality of its soils have made it the
third largest vegetable producer
la France
but the real star of the region
it's the lamb's lettuce 85% of the production
national fate of factories
conditioning of the val de loire
the market gardening sector in l'anjou it's
also nearly 5000 jobs each year
12000 tons of fruits and vegetables are
Shipped all over Europe
as an economy based on the
vegetable
but in recent years in this
cooperative engine on starts selling
other vegetables with the origin of this
change
a party imported from the united states
especially develop the all-vegetable bar
old from the 2000s actually
beautiful we took advantage of the halloween phenomenon
butternut pastries things like that ya
had an interest in these products there was
thought quickly that there was
simply a market to exploit a little
seemed obvious in a few years
cooperative has therefore to diversify
activity and develop a range of
old vegetables that represents
today 12% of the turnover of
the company is the trick for michel
it is to sell them
just like the game of trays
for rather satisfied rather the
large retail customers
barc floor bar was developed
keita game mostly in 500 grams
with a recipe card inside
so we propose charlottes
Jerusalem artichokes
we propose blinis Jerusalem artichokes
sliced old-fashioned pork at the
parsnip mousseline and that's
important to do pedagogy on
this type of levis is obvious
that you have to do a lot of pedagogy
it's obvious that it really helps
product development
how much you sell it sold 1
euro 50
the 500 gram container in
the occurrence for parsnips is more
a kilo of potatoes
today probably some 20
kg of potatoes and you have 500
grams parsnip potato vitelotte
in total twenty species all
produced in the region
with at the top of the podium the Jerusalem artichoke
700 tons are sold each year
it's five times more than ten years ago and
the Jerusalem artichoke
it is here that he produced there is a
a few dozen years dominique
pichonneau started to cultivate this
ancestral roots the streets 2 by
against that scratch it would be beer that
can grow up to 3 4 meters tall
neurons to snatch a
that's what 's at the root level
are there are not mature a
it's when it's going to be mature
are going to do the three times on this
big time there is a culture that
is almost conducted as an organic crop
a little bit of smoke the mushroom and
then behind that I put nothing else and
it's a culture that does not receive any
meaning insecticides herbicides fungicides
because it's a culture that has to
pretty rustic and who needs to be who is
unscathed almost free from disease
the Jerusalem artichoke is almost a plant
wild a species that grows by itself
almost everywhere his only problem the
harvest it was done before that was the
very simple and behind harvesters
had to pick up by hand so it was
very sorry for the workers
by all weather work outside
it's not easy
finished so harvest by hand for
increase its yields of the onecca of the
reinvent everything and in a few years he
became one of the biggest producers
of Jerusalem artichokes in France 250 tons per
year to him alone always to seek
l adapt a vegetable or rustic but
also a winter vegetable which allows
dominique to provide work to his
employees nearly ten months out of twelve
long considered a plant
harmful the basic diet of
pigs so we are witnessing the renewal of the
Jerusalem artichoke seven small tubers
would have healing virtues including
on cancer prevention
moreover studies are in progress
on the transformation of his plant into
biofuels maybe a future
opportunities for producers
it's that day it's jacky bréchet who
comes to see dominique production of this
morning jacky it's the manager
technical cooperative is there for
check the quality of the vegetables before
marketing
yes it looks good because it is
already a form to Serbian whose color
it's a good sign it's going to be beautiful
products do a good job of
fairly important research between 2007 and
we had three years of study we compared
16 varieties the Jerusalem artichoke to try
to see if we could improve the
commercial presentation of the product for
avoid having products that they
to inform to have
products you either the course one can
also in clear create a Jerusalem artichoke
unevenness easier to peel a
product capable of seducing the housewife
this is called selection
varietal an old technique like
agriculture, which consists in identifying
best plans to replicate them to
right
well sheltered in a refrigerated room
dominique keeps a precious booty
it gave it a vegetable caviar
ancient chervil tuberous root
still unknown to the general public who
has been the subject of almost 10 years of
search a real niche market
since the producers of chervil
tuberous are counted on the fingers of
the hand
it's different from the Jerusalem artichoke
a high value product
we are paid ridiculous 4 5 euros the
kilo and I think it's resold to 15
euros the kilo people do not know
many chervil tuberous it is a
product it's original that is
extremely fine delicate train on the
gastronomic plan and
we would dream of being able to produce
especially to consume much more
if people gradually consume it
knew him discover it
it's hope for the future